400 A.D. is copyright Chuck Bueche "Chuckles," Origin Systems, 1987.
This walkthrough copyright 1999-2000 by Andrew Schultz may not be
redistributed for profit in any way without my prior consent.  <Soapbox>
I look over old Apple games for fun and don't really think there should be
profit in it.  I'm not looking for profit, so I don't expect others should
profit unfairly off my work.  </Soapbox>  Especially since there wasn't much
real _WORK_.  This was fun to write and, I hope, fun to read too.

Any mistakes, corrections, etc., even of blatant typos, can be mailed to me at
schultza@earthlink.net.

The year is 2400 A. D. and the Tzorg Empire has enslaved the city of Metropolis
for a while in its quest for galactic domination.  But wait!  There's hope!
You, with the help of the Underground, a covert resistance movement, can stop
them.

I have asterisked out quests where you just need to find information.  They are
not strictly necessary, but they are neat puzzles.  Also alternative solutions
are labeled with "+."  They may require knowledge found elsewhere in the game.

First, start with intelligence=agility=endurance=30, and affinity=9.  If you
really need to improve affinity just talk to someone, cut off the conversation,
and talk again. That's one affinity point.  For endurance, run or climb stairs-
-
lowers it short-term, raises the maximum long-term. Agility comes from fixing 
or
using weapons, and intelligence comes from fixing or using items.  NEVER, NEVER
use a booster pill.  They're not worth it.  Boost labs are too hard to get to
although they are a neat puzzle.  Look for Fritz in the underground if you
really want to know.

The first thing to do is to go to Joe's Bar.  It's a building north and two to
the east of where you start the game.  Spider is in back, behind the bar.  He's
lying down. Now, he'll ask you to go to Johnnie's Corner to see Reggie, who 
will
tell you a password.  It isn't necessary to get the password, but if you don't,
you'll need to get a loan off Brehm's Bank at loan-shark rates.  Even Brehm
tells you the way you should be making money is by killing robots. Searching 
for
and finding energy cells and selling them at 5 credits is another, but it's a
little more tedious.  However, if you're out of credits and guns, this is
viable.  If you're out of ammo, just reload, get killed, and pick up your gun
again in the authority center.

**At Johnnie's Corner:  It's in the east sector.  Run all the way east(to avoid
the checker robot and social demerits) and Johnnie's corner is to the south of
the end of the walkway.  Johnnie's at the bar.  He'll tell you Reggie's 
upstairs
if you ask about REGGIE.  Go upstairs and ask Reggie the PASSWORD.  By the way,
the stairs up/down are a great way to improve your endurance.  Most of the
places have tubes.

++An alternative way to get there is to enter the transporter just outside of
the check-in center and type "LETSGO" and then "01" which sends you to the
transporter just outside Johnnie's Corner.

Back chez Spider you'll get Plastiform(healing) and a hand blaster and a
passcard, which opens the door in the Novue Apartments, behind which you can 
get
to the underground. Don't worry about getting energy, or that you can't load
from an energy node without attracting attention.  In the underground there is 
a
place with unlimited energy cells.  There's also another place in the Megatech
warehouse that has lots of energy cells.  Rudy tells you about them.

++If you don't have a weapon, Spider will give you another.  This may be a 
cheap
cheaty way to get credits.  Talk to Spider, drop a weapon, talk to Spider, etc.

The first thing you'll want to concentrate on is buying a light shield.  It is
500 credits and can be found in the underground.  I'd advise picking off robots
guarding the borders first.  To sneak behind them, either run on the walkways 
or
use the transporters(type LETSGO and then at the second prompt type 01, 02, 03,
04 to send you to the restricted zones, and 00 sends you to the Public Tracking
Office!)  The checker will follow you, and you will probably want to sucker him
into a corner.  Then attack him.  A recurring strategy for fighting robots is 
to
arrange things so you take on one at a time instead of several.

By the way, if you get "killed," just search for the loose panel in the west of
your cell.  Climb down to the first level underground, then go west and climb
back up.  You'll be in administration(the west side!)  Then go back to the
correctional center.  That's the first building after you leave the western
zone, on your north.  Your items are in a box in the southwest corner of the
first level.  Items are put there whenever you go to jail, so this happens if
you Z(urrender) too!  It's convenient and makes the game easier, but you can't
help wondering that security's a little lax.  (Also, confiscated items go 
here!)